Coming back on iOS that we know it's
working there it looks like an app,
we have a couple of problems.
The first problem that I see
is that because it's a web I
can actually select part of
the website like this, okay?
And sometimes I can select
parts that I don't want to,
like the buttons content
including the icon and
it looks like to webby and
it doesn't look nice, okay.
So it's weird.
Maybe we went out, I mean,
if I add some notes here,
maybe I want to copy the note content, but
not the button, not the delete button.
It doesn't make any sense.
So by default,
everything is selectable as web content.
And because now we are an app,
the user expectation is that
we should react like an app.
So we need to work on this.
And so we need to work a little bit on
our CSS to make it more up capable,
if you want.
So back in our CSS, what we need
to do is disable user selection,
that's a CSS property user-select
on some parts, at least.
For example, we can look at our icons.
It's a span icon.
And also you we have the buttons.
So we can say that the buttons
with the icon inside.
It's going to read user-select, none.
Just to be safe with all
the browser's we still need a prefix,
sorry about that that's
-webkit-user select.
So we can apply these to the button.
Maybe we can start the class here,
to the icons and
maybe to the title, the h1.
So if I do this If I go back here
we have the refresh problem, okay.
We need to refresh and we don't know how.
So the only way is to actually kill
the app and open the app again.
Now, if I try to select the title it
doesn't work, if I tried to select
the button, that's what I'm trying,
it's not working, okay.
And if I try to something here,
like lunch, okay.
I can select lunch, the text but
not the icon, okay?
So again this is not specifically for
PWA's, but
it's something that it's a design
pattern that we should follow.
So that's the first part.
Another thing that I have here if
you look at the bottom, our toolbar,
something's wrong.
So what's wrong?
Well, that Learn button doesn't
feel like being in the right place.
And probably think it will.
In Safari, we don't have
the problem because Safari has its
own tab bar at the bottom,
even when it's hidden, but
I don't have enough content
here to hide that URL.
But even when it's hidden, I can hide that
from here probably hide toolbar, there.
We still have a little
piece of browser's UI at
the bottom that maybe work,
so my button is working.
However, when we are in
a standalone application,
the problem that we
have is that this area,
the bottom is used by the West to
actually trigger the multitask mode,
or to go right and left and
move between apps.
And that's known as an unsafe area.
And if you want to render content there,
you need to understand that that
content won't be interactive.
So my Baton,
my whole toolbar is not interactive.
So we have a problem,
how to solve the problem.
Well, maybe you are thinking,
well, Hey, max, that simple,
just go find the toolbar.
I think I'm pointing to
the main toolbar here and
add the padding bottom of value
I don't know the value but
let's try like I know 32 pixels, okay.
If I save this, Kill the app,
we can pull the refresh
button while we're debugging and
now it works, okay.
Yeah, but the problem is that
I also have the padding here.
And it's, I don't like it.
Well, we can use media queries,
okay and apply.
We haven't used a media query yet, but
we can apply this padding
only in standalone mode.
Can we do that?
Yes, it's possible to do that.
Let me show you how,
because it will be useful later on.
But I don't think it's necessary for
this particular example.
You can have immediate query and
there is a new attribute that we
can query it's called display mode.
And as values, I can use all the values
From the display property in the manifest,
such as standalone.
So I can say on standalone,
I wanna apply to this selector,
the padding bottom.
So if I do that, I'm kind of better
Even on desktop, I'm not seeing that.
If I refresh here, I'm not seeing the
padding, and I'm still seeing the padding.
Let me close the PWA I should
still see the padding here.
But this is not yet a good idea.
Why?
Because there are some iPhones or
Androids without that problem.
For example,
I can open another simulator that it's
the iPhone SE the iPhone SE, okay?
Or the iPhone 8 if you want,
has a home button.
So we don't have those gestures,
we don't have that unsafe area and
we will still be adding a padding.
So it seems more complicated that
just putting in a value there.
Fortunately, we have a solution.
Today, modern browsers are exposing
some CSS environmental variables.
These are kind of constants
that we can apply.
For example for these, for the safe areas.
In the GitHub project,
I have a text file that says snippets
txt file that is just where I have
here a couple of snippets that are,
if you want to type them or if you want
to copy from my screen it will take time.
So you can just copy and paste from here
for those pieces that will take more code.
For the safe area,
we have these environmental properties.
So I'm not sure if you have used
this before, but now in CSS,
we have this env function.
So we can use env to actually
set the inset-bottom.
In this case it will use
the value that applies to
that particular phone in
that particular context.
The problem of applying these
only on padding bottom is
that it's not always bottom
because they were here we
have this one where we don't see that
horizontal rule in this iPhone SE.
So we don't need the padding on the phone.
So, Something that we need to
remember is that I can go landscape.
And now if I go landscape,
okay, we have the safe area,
in like in a different position.
So maybe we actually want to apply
the safe area on every edge.
And that's actually this
kind of padding or margin,
you can apply to padding or
margin, it's up to you.
The important is just in case.
So I will apply these to the padding.
And this is what I'm looking for
top right bottom left.
Remember this is clockwise.
So, and
in this case we are applying the margin.
And something that we can do is
also apply a default margin.
Maybe you say okay,
something that you want is the bottom, but
if there is no margin, I want five bucks.
So there is a second argument
to this function that
is optional where you can
define like a fallback value in
case there is no safe area in
the bottom variable, okay?
Just in case you need that.
So now if I apply this.
I don't need to apply
the media query actually,
we can keep that for the browser as well.
But it's up to you.
Let's keep the media query anyway.
So let's open here in this iPhone,
localhost 5000.
That's my server.
And I'm going to install the app.
So the share at your home screen
cope up with the right icon.
Okay, looks good.
And if I open this,
I see my button without.
Any padding because I don't
have that unsafe area and
if we try this now on the iPhone
that needs that safe area,
we're still not seen that.
That is because from iOS 15, we have
something else that we need to add.
This will work on iOS 14.
So to understand what do we need to add,
let me show you something.
If I go landscape on the iPhone 13,
you can see that we have some
orange bars are the sites, okay?
So that is that by default,
we do not have full support for
100% of the area for us.
So by default we can not render content
at the right at the left of the screen.
We can request access to that.
And that will also solve our problem by
adding something in our viewport metadata.
Going back to HTML, I will look for
my viewport metadata and
within the content,
I will add another property.
That is a new one.
In fact, it has been for a couple
of years since the first iPhone 10.
So I'm going to use coma and
it's called viewport-fit,
viewport-fit equals cover.
In this case, we're asking OS to
give us all the available viewpoint.
That means that now our content
can be under, a notch or
it can be under maybe in a space of the
display that is hidden for some reason but
then we can use the safe areas to
actually add padding, some margin.
So now if I save, and go back here,
I can kill my process and
open the app again.
And now we see that we finally have
the padding in the toolbar at the bottom.
And if I do the same on my iPhone SE, so
I kill the process and open the app again.
I don't have the padding.
So now it's working on iPhones with the
multitask Chester, we have the padding and
the other iPhones or Android or
desktop will not have that talent.
What happens if I try landscape now?
If I go landscape,
now you can see that now,100% of
the screen we don't have those
vertical bars or the sites.
So 100% of the screen is actually for
my content.
So you need to be very careful here and
check that we have enough
padding in the body or
in the main container of your content
too because if not our content
will actually be rendered behind
the notch and we know that's not visible.
So for now, our PWA looks nice,
at least on iOS.
It looks nice.
But we know that when we go to dev
tools in Chrome and check the manifest,
it says instability that we
don't have a service worker.
So that's the next step.
Because we actually want our app to work
offline and with that we will pass the PWA
criteria and it will be installable
on desktop and also on Android.